---
id: about-pro
title: Botpress Enterprise License
---

When creating a chatbot or any other software, the considerations for enterprises are different from small businesses.
While all businesses strive to create the best possible chatbot with the available resources, the enterprise has more issues than the small business.

## Security
Security is a top priority for enterprises. Botpress allows hosting on-premise, which means that you have complete control of the servers that your chatbot runs on and the development process. This enables you to implement your full security policy. 

An Enterprise license comes with additional tools to buttress self-hosting. You can configure development pipelines that allow you to promote your chatbot through different stages in your development cycle. Botpress Enterprise also unlocks user authentication, which increases your server security. Botpress Enterprise supports OAuth2, SAML, LDAP, and SSO, giving you a wide variety of industry-standard security protocols to choose from

## Branding
As an enterprise, anything that you release should not detract from your brand. An enterprise chatbot needs to remove as many complications as possible from the task for which it was designed. It should also have interfaces that are styled the same way as the brand to introduce familiarity. These attributes, coupled with character, will increase user appeal, uptake, and satisfaction.

A Botpress Enterprise license gives you Whitelabel access to the chatbot user interface, developer studio, and administration interface. This means that you can customize the branding style of both your website chatbot and your backend.

Botpress Enterprise also unlocks sophisticated and customizable analytics to enable monitoring and refinement of the brand experience. Analytics help identify problems and opportunities. Using market segmentation, A/B testing, and other analytics, you can personalize the chatbot experience for your customer, enhancing the brand experience.

## Scale
As an enterprise, you must upscale and optimize your infrastructure so that your chatbot's performance does not deteriorate as user volumes increase.  You should be able to implement the architecture required to process multiple, simultaneous conversations. A robust monitoring mechanism that alerts chatbot maintainers of potential and existing problems should be in place. 

A Botpress Enterprise license unlocks clustering, which enables you to harness additional server resources. You can also monitor the chatbot's performance and set up alerts when errors occur using your chatbot's Monitoring and Alerting interfaces.

## Complex Teams and Systems
It must be possible for the enterprise to manage all the teams involved in building and maintaining the chatbot. A secure, efficient, and easily configurable role separation needs to be present in the framework in two ways:

**Firstly** at the development level, it should be possible to independently manage and separate authoring content from creating conversation. On top of a separated content and flow interface, Botpress has separate interfaces for analytics, NLU, live conversation viewing, code editing, and frequently asked questions. This unlocks separate development and maintenance levels for conversation designers, content managers, data scientists, and software developers.
‍
**Secondly**, access to the system and its interfaces pre and post-deployment needs to be controlled through multi-user management and role-based security. Moreover, you would likely want to monitor and manage all your bots from one dashboard. 

With a Botpress Enterprise license, you can build a role-based access system that limits the interfaces accessible for each type of user. For example, you can restrict support staff to the HITL interface, data scientists to the Analytics module interface, and content creators to the Content interface. This feature also allows you to monitor who accessed your server and when they did so.

## Control
To control the code and data, the enterprise must have access to the code and data. While it is obvious to point this out, many chatbot solutions do not give enterprises control of the source code and the data generated by the application, which limits flexibility. With complete control of the data and source code, the enterprise can fully integrate and customize any chatbot and share common functionality (such as payment capabilities) between chatbots. Botpress Enterprise serves this need by allowing you to host your application anywhere, whether your company-based servers or a cloud-based solution.

An enterprise needs the chatbot to be positively differentiated from the competition. To achieve this, the enterprise has to use the framework that gives them the flexibility and efficiency to create the best customer experience with the resources and in the time scale required. Botpress allows for customization using code to create UI components for your webchat. Botpress also harnesses the power of hooks and actions, which are forms of injectible JavaScript code that execute during the flow.

## The Gist

While all the above considerations are essential and must be addressed, of course, the main priority is to develop a chatbot that succeeds in offering the customer a much better way of accomplishing the job at hand. This is not the sole goal of the enterprise but is an essential point that we must emphasize.

There is a tendency to embrace new technology to the extent that the customer experience is unintentionally deprioritized. While this danger exists for all companies, it might be harder to catch within enterprises because it's harder for managers in large organizations to monitor every detail of what is going on.

One hazardous space for enterprises in the "chatbots for enterprise" space is the use of AI. Remarkable advances in Natural Language Processing (NLP) allow chatbots to identify the speaker's intentions in natural language with a high degree of accuracy. However, there is an erroneous general perception that AI can carry out deep conversations with customers about their products. While these types of systems may be viable in the future, getting a chatbot to understand context, ambiguity and have a meaningful memory is a quixotical quest that can suck up endless resources and time.

Enterprises need to consider many issues when building a chatbot experience for their customers. And that is in addition to making sure that the chatbot solves a real problem for the end customer and that the experience is truly outstanding. Even if the enterprise starts by building simple prototypes that roll out to a limited customer base, there are still important issues to consider. One of the primary considerations is ensuring that the prototype is built on a framework that will make it easy to proceed towards production once the relevant information has been gathered.

Enterprises are beginning to embrace chatbots, and we believe that enterprise chatbots will soon become a mainstream channel for customer interaction.


## Features Overview

| Feature                    | Community | Enterprise |
| -------------------------- | --------- | ---------- |
| Botpress NLU               | ✔️        | ✔️         |
| Visual Flow Editor         | ✔️        | ✔️         |
| Dialog Management          | ✔️        | ✔️         |
| Bot CMS                    | ✔️        | ✔️         |
| Unlimited Bots             | ✔️        | ✔️         |
| Unlimited Admins           |           | ✔️         |
| White-Label Chat Interface |           | ✔️         |
| Role-Based Access Control  |           | ✔️         |
| High-Availability          |           | ✔️         |
| Increased Performance      |           | ✔️         |
| Standard Support           |           | ✔️         |
| Multilanguage Bots         |           | ✔️         |
| Monitoting and Alerting    |           | ✔️         |


For more details, [contact sales team](https://botpress.com/request-demo/).

## Activation

To enable Botpress Enterprise features simply set `pro.enabled` to `true` in your `botpress.config.json` file

## White Label

There is an [example on our GitHub repository](https://github.com/botpress/botpress/tree/master/examples/whitelabel) on how to customize Botpress for white-labeling.
